This is the data repository for the BOLD Moments Dataset. This dataset contains brain responses to 1,102 3-second videos across 10 subjects. Each subject saw the 1,000 video training set 3 times and the 102 video testing set 10 times.  Each video is additionally human-annotated with 15 object labels, 5 scene labels, 5 action labels, 5 sentence text descriptions, 1 spoken transcription, 1 memorability score, and 1 memorability decay rate.
Overview of contents:
The home folder (everything except the derivatives/ folder) contains the raw data in BIDS format before any preprocessing. Download this folder if you want to run your own preprocessing pipeline (e.g., fMRIPrep, HCP pipeline).
The derivatives folder contains all data derivatives, including the stimulus annotations (./derivatives/stimuli_metadata/annotations.json), model weight checkpoints for a TSM ResNet50 model trained on a subset of Multi-Moments in Time, and prepared beta estimates from two different fMRIPrep preprocessing pipelines (./derivatives/versionA and ./derivatives/versionB).
VersionA was used in the main manuscript, and versionB is detailed in the manuscript's supplementary. If you are starting a new project, we highly recommend you use the prepared data in ./derivatives/versionB/ because of its better registration, use of GLMsingle, and availability in more standard/non-standard output spaces.
Code used in the manuscript is located at the derivatives version level. For example, the code used in the main manuscript is located under ./derivatives/versionA/scripts.
Note that versionA prepared data is very large due to beta estimates for 9 TRs per video.
See this GitHub repo for starter code demonstrating basic usage and dataset download scripts: https://github.com/blahner/BOLDMomentsDataset.
See this GitHub repo for the TSM ResNet50 model training and inference code: https://github.com/pbw-Berwin/M4-pretrained

Data collection notes:
All data collection notes explained below are detailed here for the purpose of full
transparency and should be of no concern to researchers using the data i.e. these
inconsistencies have been attended to and integrated into the BIDS format as if these
exceptions did not occur. The correct pairings between field maps and functional runs
are detailed in the .json sidecars accompanying each field map scan.

Subject 2:
Session 1: Subject repositioned head for comfort after the third resting state scan, 
approximately 1 hour into the session. New scout and field map scans were taken. 
In the case of applying a susceptibility distortion correction analysis, session 
1 therefore has two sets of field maps, denoted by “run-1” and “run-2” in the 
filename. The “IntendedFor” field in the field map’s identically named .json sidecar 
file specifies which functional scans correspond to which field map.

Session 4: Completed over two separate days due to subject feeling sleepy. All 3 
testing runs and 6/10 training runs were completed on the first day, and the last 
4 training runs were completed on the second day. Each of the two days for session 
4 had its own field map. This did not interfere with session 5. All scans across 
both days belonging to session 4 were analyzed as if they were collected on the same 
day. In the case of applying a susceptibility distortion correction analysis, session 
4 therefore has two sets of field maps, denoted by “run-1” and “run-2” in the filename. 
The “IntendedFor” field in the field map’s identically named .json sidecar file 
specifies which functional scans correspond to which field map.

Subject 4:
Sessions 1 and 2: The fifth (out of 5) localizer run from session 1 was completed at 
the end of session 2 due to a technical error. This localizer run therefore used the 
field map from session 2. In the case of applying a susceptibility distortion correction 
analysis, session 1 therefore has two sets of field maps, denoted by “run-1” and 
“run-2” in the filename. The “IntendedFor” field in the field map’s identically named 
.json sidecar file specifies which functional scans correspond to which field map. 

Subject 10:
Session 5: Subject moved a lot to readjust earplug after the third functional run (1 
test and 2 training runs completed). New field map scans were collected. In the case of
 applying a susceptibility distortion correction analysis, session 5 therefore has two 
sets of field maps, denoted by “run-1” and “run-2” in the filename. The “IntendedFor” 
field in the field map’s identically named .json sidecar file specifies which 
functional scans correspond to which field map.